---
title: "Stochastic kriging for nonlinear seismic response estimation" # Title of your project
weight: 3 # Order in which to show this project on the home page
external_link: "" # Optional external link instead of modal
resources:
    - src: seismic0.png
---

#### We show that a surrogate model for the seismic response of civil infrastructure reduces computational cost of regional-level earthquake simulation while also incorporating additional uncertainty information in seismic risk analysis arising from variability in ground motion loading. 


***References***  

[**J. Zou**, D. P. Welch, A. Zsarnoczay, A. Taflanidis, G. Deierlein. "Surrogate Modeling for the Seismic Response Estimation of
Residential Wood Frame Structures." *17th World Conference in Earthquake Engineering.* Sendai, Japan. 2020.](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/344803660_Surrogate_Modeling_for_the_Seismic_Response_Estimation_of_Residential_Wood_Frame_Structures)


***Challenge.***
Seismic risk assessment is a method of evaluating an infrastructure asset's expected ability to meet service needs under the risk of extreme earthquake events. While this form of risk analysis is traditionally conducted at the level of individual buildings, increasing the scope to a population of buildings is important for quantifying economic risks at the municipality or regional level. However, the state-of-art of estimating seismic response by nonlinear response history analysis (NLRHA) presents a high computational cost which limits the scale and resolution of regional-level earthquake simulations. 

***Solution.***
Surrogate modeling provides an efficient computational means for seismic response estimation of structural systems. A probability distribution over the seismic response is approximated from the output of a statistical model at comparable accuracy and a fraction of the cost of performing high fidelity simulation, enabling simulation of the impact of earthquake disasters to civil infrastructure on a regional scale.

***Methodology.***
We demonstrate stochastic kriging as a robust surrogate model which is able to estimate heteroscedastic variance in seismic response resulting from variability in ground motion excitation. **Stochastic kriging** is a two-tiered statistical model in which one Gaussian process models the relative variability of estimator variance across the parameter space (the "nugget") and another Gaussian process models the distribution of seismic response incorporating variance information from the first model. The metamodel is constructed using a dataset generated by performing nonlinear response history analysis on a number of building configurations parameterized by structural properties. Replicate simulations are performed for a subset of configurations for learning the GP model of variance. We study the tradeoff in accuracy and cost to determine an appropriate composition of building configurations and replications to query in dataset generation. 


***What's New?***
This work addresses unique challenges with surrogate model development for the case in which seismic hazard is characterized using PEER NGA earthquake ground motion recordings. Recorded ground motions provide a more realistic representation of seismic excitation but introduce a greater amount of aleatory uncertainty in the structural response estimate compared to synthetic ground motion models due to record-to-record variability. This work is a novel application of kriging with a heteroscedastic nugget for quantifying underlying variability in ground motion recordings. Moreover, as a Bayesian technique of surrogate modeling, kriging allows for the propagation of uncertainty in the estimated structural response to decision factors in seismic risk analysis. 
